# operaters and loops

A for loop repeats until a specified condition evaluates to false. The JavaScript for loop is similar to the Java and C for loop.
When a for loop executes, the following occurs:

The initializing expression initialization, if any, is executed. This expression usually initializes one or more loop counters, but the syntax allows an expression of any degree of complexity. This expression can also declare variables.
The condition expression is evaluated. If the value of condition is true, the loop statements execute. Otherwise, the for loop terminates. (If the condition expression is omitted entirely, the condition is assumed to be true.)
The statement executes. To execute multiple statements, use a block statement ({ }) to group those statements.
If present, the update expression afterthought is executed.
Control returns to Step 2.

A while loop is a control structure in computer programming that allows you to execute a block of code repeatedly as long as a certain condition remains true. The loop will continue to execute until the condition becomes false.

While loops are often used when you want to repeat a set of instructions a certain number of times or until a certain condition is met. For example, you might use a while loop to read data from a file or database until you have processed all of the records. Or you might use a while loop to repeatedly prompt a user for input until they provide valid input.

One important consideration when using a while loop is to make sure that the condition will eventually become false. Otherwise, you may end up with an infinite loop, where the program gets stuck in an endless loop and never terminates. To avoid this, you can add code inside the loop that changes the condition, so that eventually the loop will exit.
